README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vllm-project/vllm/main/docs/source/assets/logos/vllm-logo-text-dark.png">
    <img alt="vLLM" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vllm-project/vllm/main/docs/source/assets/logos/vllm-logo-text-light.png" width=55%>
  </picture>
</p>

<h3 align="center">
Easy, fast, and cheap LLM serving for everyone
</h3>

<p align="center">
| <a href="https://docs.vllm.ai"><b>Documentation</b></a> | <a href="https://vllm.ai"><b>Blog</b></a> | <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.06180"><b>Paper</b></a> | <a href="https://discord.gg/jz7wjKhh6g"><b>Discord</b></a> |

</p>

---

*Latest News* 🔥
- [2023/12] Added ROCm support to vLLM.
- [2023/10] We hosted [the first vLLM meetup](https://lu.ma/first-vllm-meetup) in SF! Please find the meetup slides [here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1QL-XPFXiFpDBh86DbEegFXBXFXjix4v032GhShbKf3s/edit?usp=sharing).
- [2023/09] We created our [Discord server](https://discord.gg/jz7wjKhh6g)! Join us to discuss vLLM and LLM serving! We will also post the latest announcements and updates there.
- [2023/09] We released our [PagedAttention paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.06180) on arXiv!
- [2023/08] We would like to express our sincere gratitude to [Andreessen Horowitz](https://a16z.com/2023/08/30/supporting-the-open-source-ai-community/) (a16z) for providing a generous grant to support the open-source development and research of vLLM.
- [2023/07] Added support for LLaMA-2! You can run and serve 7B/13B/70B LLaMA-2s on vLLM with a single command!
- [2023/06] Serving vLLM On any Cloud with SkyPilot. Check out a 1-click [example](https://github.com/skypilot-org/skypilot/blob/master/llm/vllm) to start the vLLM demo, and the [blog post](https://blog.skypilot.co/serving-llm-24x-faster-on-the-cloud-with-vllm-and-skypilot/) for the story behind vLLM development on the clouds.
- [2023/06] We officially released vLLM! FastChat-vLLM integration has powered [LMSYS Vicuna and Chatbot Arena](https://chat.lmsys.org) since mid-April. Check out our [blog post](https://vllm.ai).

---

vLLM is a fast and easy-to-use library for LLM inference and serving.

vLLM is fast with:

- State-of-the-art serving throughput
- Efficient management of attention key and value memory with **PagedAttention**
- Continuous batching of incoming requests
- Optimized CUDA kernels

vLLM is flexible and easy to use with:

- Seamless integration with popular Hugging Face models
- High-throughput serving with various decoding algorithms, including *parallel sampling*, *beam search*, and more
- Tensor parallelism support for distributed inference
- Streaming outputs
- OpenAI-compatible API server
- Support NVIDIA CUDA and AMD ROCm.

vLLM seamlessly supports many Hugging Face models, including the following architectures:

- Aquila & Aquila2 (`BAAI/AquilaChat2-7B`, `BAAI/AquilaChat2-34B`, `BAAI/Aquila-7B`, `BAAI/AquilaChat-7B`, etc.)
- Baichuan & Baichuan2 (`baichuan-inc/Baichuan2-13B-Chat`, `baichuan-inc/Baichuan-7B`, etc.)
- BLOOM (`bigscience/bloom`, `bigscience/bloomz`, etc.)
- ChatGLM (`THUDM/chatglm2-6b`, `THUDM/chatglm3-6b`, etc.)
- Falcon (`tiiuae/falcon-7b`, `tiiuae/falcon-40b`, `tiiuae/falcon-rw-7b`, etc.)
- GPT-2 (`gpt2`, `gpt2-xl`, etc.)
- GPT BigCode (`bigcode/starcoder`, `bigcode/gpt_bigcode-santacoder`, etc.)
- GPT-J (`EleutherAI/gpt-j-6b`, `nomic-ai/gpt4all-j`, etc.)
- GPT-NeoX (`EleutherAI/gpt-neox-20b`, `databricks/dolly-v2-12b`, `stabilityai/stablelm-tuned-alpha-7b`, etc.)
- InternLM (`internlm/internlm-7b`, `internlm/internlm-chat-7b`, etc.)
- LLaMA & LLaMA-2 (`meta-llama/Llama-2-70b-hf`, `lmsys/vicuna-13b-v1.3`, `young-geng/koala`, `openlm-research/open_llama_13b`, etc.)
- Mistral (`mistralai/Mistral-7B-v0.1`, `mistralai/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.1`, etc.)
- Mixtral (`mistralai/Mixtral-8x7B-v0.1`, `mistralai/Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1`, etc.)
- MPT (`mosaicml/mpt-7b`, `mosaicml/mpt-30b`, etc.)
- OPT (`facebook/opt-66b`, `facebook/opt-iml-max-30b`, etc.)
- Phi-1.5 (`microsoft/phi-1_5`, etc.)
- Qwen (`Qwen/Qwen-7B`, `Qwen/Qwen-7B-Chat`, etc.)
- Yi (`01-ai/Yi-6B`, `01-ai/Yi-34B`, etc.)

Install vLLM with pip or [from source](https://vllm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/installation.html#build-from-source):

```bash
pip install vllm
```

## Getting Started

Visit our [documentation](https://vllm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) to get started.
- [Installation](https://vllm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/installation.html)
- [Quickstart](https://vllm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/quickstart.html)
- [Supported Models](https://vllm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/models/supported_models.html)

## Contributing

We welcome and value any contributions and collaborations.
Please check out [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for how to get involved.

## Citation

If you use vLLM for your research, please cite our [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.06180):
```bibtex
@inproceedings{kwon2023efficient,
  title={Efficient Memory Management for Large Language Model Serving with PagedAttention},
  author={Woosuk Kwon and Zhuohan Li and Siyuan Zhuang and Ying Sheng and Lianmin Zheng and Cody Hao Yu and Joseph E. Gonzalez and Hao Zhang and Ion Stoica},
  booktitle={Proceedings of the ACM SIGOPS 29th Symposium on Operating Systems Principles},
  year={2023}
}
```

Commit message:

Update README.md to add megablocks requirement for mixtral (#2033)

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vllm-project/vllm/main/docs/source/assets/logos/vllm-logo-text-dark.png">
    <img alt="vLLM" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vllm-project/vllm/main/docs/source/assets/logos/vllm-logo-text-light.png" width=55%>
  </picture>
</p>

<h3 align="center">
Easy, fast, and cheap LLM serving for everyone
</h3>

<p align="center">
| <a href="https://docs.vllm.ai"><b>Documentation</b></a> | <a href="https://vllm.ai"><b>Blog</b></a> | <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.06180"><b>Paper</b></a> | <a href="https://discord.gg/jz7wjKhh6g"><b>Discord</b></a> |

</p>

---

*Latest News* 🔥
- [2023/12] Added ROCm support to vLLM.
- [2023/10] We hosted [the first vLLM meetup](https://lu.ma/first-vllm-meetup) in SF! Please find the meetup slides [here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1QL-XPFXiFpDBh86DbEegFXBXFXjix4v032GhShbKf3s/edit?usp=sharing).
- [2023/09] We created our [Discord server](https://discord.gg/jz7wjKhh6g)! Join us to discuss vLLM and LLM serving! We will also post the latest announcements and updates there.
- [2023/09] We released our [PagedAttention paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.06180) on arXiv!
- [2023/08] We would like to express our sincere gratitude to [Andreessen Horowitz](https://a16z.com/2023/08/30/supporting-the-open-source-ai-community/) (a16z) for providing a generous grant to support the open-source development and research of vLLM.
- [2023/07] Added support for LLaMA-2! You can run and serve 7B/13B/70B LLaMA-2s on vLLM with a single command!
- [2023/06] Serving vLLM On any Cloud with SkyPilot. Check out a 1-click [example](https://github.com/skypilot-org/skypilot/blob/master/llm/vllm) to start the vLLM demo, and the [blog post](https://blog.skypilot.co/serving-llm-24x-faster-on-the-cloud-with-vllm-and-skypilot/) for the story behind vLLM development on the clouds.
- [2023/06] We officially released vLLM! FastChat-vLLM integration has powered [LMSYS Vicuna and Chatbot Arena](https://chat.lmsys.org) since mid-April. Check out our [blog post](https://vllm.ai).

---

vLLM is a fast and easy-to-use library for LLM inference and serving.

vLLM is fast with:

- State-of-the-art serving throughput
- Efficient management of attention key and value memory with **PagedAttention**
- Continuous batching of incoming requests
- Optimized CUDA kernels

vLLM is flexible and easy to use with:

- Seamless integration with popular Hugging Face models
- High-throughput serving with various decoding algorithms, including *parallel sampling*, *beam search*, and more
- Tensor parallelism support for distributed inference
- Streaming outputs
- OpenAI-compatible API server
- Support NVIDIA CUDA and AMD ROCm.

vLLM seamlessly supports many Hugging Face models, including the following architectures:

- Aquila & Aquila2 (`BAAI/AquilaChat2-7B`, `BAAI/AquilaChat2-34B`, `BAAI/Aquila-7B`, `BAAI/AquilaChat-7B`, etc.)
- Baichuan & Baichuan2 (`baichuan-inc/Baichuan2-13B-Chat`, `baichuan-inc/Baichuan-7B`, etc.)
- BLOOM (`bigscience/bloom`, `bigscience/bloomz`, etc.)
- ChatGLM (`THUDM/chatglm2-6b`, `THUDM/chatglm3-6b`, etc.)
- Falcon (`tiiuae/falcon-7b`, `tiiuae/falcon-40b`, `tiiuae/falcon-rw-7b`, etc.)
- GPT-2 (`gpt2`, `gpt2-xl`, etc.)
- GPT BigCode (`bigcode/starcoder`, `bigcode/gpt_bigcode-santacoder`, etc.)
- GPT-J (`EleutherAI/gpt-j-6b`, `nomic-ai/gpt4all-j`, etc.)
- GPT-NeoX (`EleutherAI/gpt-neox-20b`, `databricks/dolly-v2-12b`, `stabilityai/stablelm-tuned-alpha-7b`, etc.)
- InternLM (`internlm/internlm-7b`, `internlm/internlm-chat-7b`, etc.)
- LLaMA & LLaMA-2 (`meta-llama/Llama-2-70b-hf`, `lmsys/vicuna-13b-v1.3`, `young-geng/koala`, `openlm-research/open_llama_13b`, etc.)
- Mistral (`mistralai/Mistral-7B-v0.1`, `mistralai/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.1`, etc.)
- Mixtral (`mistralai/Mixtral-8x7B-v0.1`, `mistralai/Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1`, etc.)
- MPT (`mosaicml/mpt-7b`, `mosaicml/mpt-30b`, etc.)
- OPT (`facebook/opt-66b`, `facebook/opt-iml-max-30b`, etc.)
- Phi-1.5 (`microsoft/phi-1_5`, etc.)
- Qwen (`Qwen/Qwen-7B`, `Qwen/Qwen-7B-Chat`, etc.)
- Yi (`01-ai/Yi-6B`, `01-ai/Yi-34B`, etc.)

Install vLLM with pip or [from source](https://vllm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/installation.html#build-from-source):

```bash
pip install vllm
```
**NOTE:** The Mixtral model additionally requires `megablocks` which can be installed with pip or [from source](https://github.com/stanford-futuredata/megablocks) on **Python 3.10**:
```bash
pip install megablocks
```

## Getting Started

Visit our [documentation](https://vllm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) to get started.
- [Installation](https://vllm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/installation.html)
- [Quickstart](https://vllm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/quickstart.html)
- [Supported Models](https://vllm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/models/supported_models.html)

## Contributing

We welcome and value any contributions and collaborations.
Please check out [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for how to get involved.

## Citation

If you use vLLM for your research, please cite our [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.06180):
```bibtex
@inproceedings{kwon2023efficient,
  title={Efficient Memory Management for Large Language Model Serving with PagedAttention},
  author={Woosuk Kwon and Zhuohan Li and Siyuan Zhuang and Ying Sheng and Lianmin Zheng and Cody Hao Yu and Joseph E. Gonzalez and Hao Zhang and Ion Stoica},
  booktitle={Proceedings of the ACM SIGOPS 29th Symposium on Operating Systems Principles},
  year={2023}
}
```
